---
id: rn-0.11.0 
title: Release Announcement v0.11.0
---

<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->
# Release Announcement v0.11.0
It gives us great pleasure to announce that the Apache YuniKorn (Incubating) community has voted to release 0.11.0. Apache YuniKorn (Incubating) is a standalone resource scheduler, designed for managing, and scheduling Big Data workloads on the container orchestration framework for on-prem and on-cloud use cases.
This release has a couple of REST API, UI usability and Gang scheduling improvements.

## Overview
The Apache YuniKorn (Incubating) community has fixed over 110 JIRAs in this release: [YuniKorn jiras resolved in 0.11.0](https://issues.apache.org/jira/projects/YUNIKORN/versions/12350025)

Release manager: Kinga Marton

Release date: 2021-08-18

## Highlights

### Supported Kubernetes Versions
In this release supported Kubernetes versions have been updated to 1.17.x, 1.18.x and 1.19.x. (Earlier versions support 1.16.x, 1.17.x and 1.18.x.) YuniKorn support matrix primarily supports 3 major Kubernetes versions.

### Web UI usability enhancements
The community has made some usability improvements for the web UI to provide better user experience, bug fixes, etc.

### Rest API enhancements
With this release new REST API endpoints were introduced to make it possible to fetch per partition information.

## Community
The Apache YuniKorn community is pleased to welcome new committer Manikandan R and new PPMC member, Kinga Marton. We would love to see more committers joining the community and help to shape the project. In the past few months, we continue to have bi-weekly community meetings in 2 different time zones, ad-hoc meetings, offline channel discussions. The community will continue to be open.
