---
id: rn-0.12.2
title: Release Announcement v0.12.2
---

<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->
# Release Announcement v0.12.2
We are pleased to announce that the Apache YuniKorn (Incubating) community has voted to release 0.12.2. Apache YuniKorn (Incubating) is a standalone resource scheduler, designed for managing, and scheduling Big Data workloads on container orchestration frameworks like Kubernetes for on-prem and on-cloud use cases.

## Overview
The Apache YuniKorn (Incubating) community has fixed 19 [JIRAs](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/YUNIKORN-1038?filter=12351270) in this release. Version 0.12.2 is primarily a maintenance release to allow better compatibility with current Kubernetes releases. There is also a fix for a critical issue affecting the usage of dynamic volumes that was found in 0.12.1, so all users of 0.12.1 are urged to upgrade.

Release manager: Craig Condit

Release date: 2022-02-03

## Highlights

### Supported Kubernetes versions
In this release, support for Kubernetes 1.22.x and 1.23.x was added (the last release supported 1.19.x, 1.20.x and 1.21.x). Apache YuniKorn (Incubating) attempts to support all current Kubernetes releases.

### Separation of admission controller deployment from scheduler deployment
As of 0.12.2, the Admission controller is now managed explicitly via Helm instead of being ad-hoc installed from within the scheduler. This will make scheduler restarts and future upgrades more reliable. However, this does mean that migration from versions < 0.12.2 to versions >= 0.12.2 will require an uninstall/reinstall cycle via Helm. We expect that Helm upgrades will function properly moving forward.

### Removal of beta API usage in admission controller
In 0.12.2, the admission controller was updated to remove usage of a few beta Kubernetes APIs which were dropped from Kubernetes 1.22. This now allows us to deploy on all currently maintained Kubernetes releases.

### Deprecation of old REST API endpoints

The REST API has been updated with endpoints that support specifying partitions. The old versions which do not take a partition argument have been deprecated and will be removed in an upcoming release:

- `/ws/v1/queues` replaced with `/ws/v1/partition/{partitionName}/queues`
- `/ws/v1/apps` replaced with `/ws/v1/partition/{partitionName}/apps`
- `/ws/v1/nodes` replaced with `/ws/v1/partition/{partitionName}/nodes`

## Community
The Apache YuniKorn (Incubating) community is pleased to welcome new committers Peter Bacsko and Yu Teng Chen. We would love to see more committers joining the community and help to shape the project. We continue to have bi-weekly community meetings in 2 different time zones, ad-hoc meetings, and offline channel discussions. The community continues to be open to all interested parties.
